DEDUCTIONS FROM PAY AGREEMENT
Schofield Fitness Ltd
If you are overpaid for any reason, the total amount of the overpayment will normally be deducted from your next payment but if this would cause hardship, arrangements may be made for the overpayment to be recovered over a longer period.
In the event that the Company is faced with a shortage of work, or is unable to provide you with work for any other reason, then you agree that the Company may temporarily:
a) 
place you on short-time working, in which case you will be paid for those hours worked; or
b) 
lay you off from work, in which case you will be paid in accordance with the statutory guarantee pay provisions in place at that time; or
c) 
designate you as a furloughed (or similar) worker, in accordance with the terms of any Government furlough (or similar) scheme in place from time to time, in which case during such period, if required, you will cease to carry out any work for the Company. (For this purpose you agree that the Company may adjust your salary and benefits by an appropriate amount to ensure that it receives reimbursement of such salary and benefits under the said scheme to the fullest extent possible).
The entirety of this section entitled “Shortage of work” forms part of your contractual terms and conditions.
Any damage to stock or property that is the result of your carelessness, negligence or deliberate vandalism will render you liable to pay the full or part of the cost of repair or replacement.  Any loss to us that is the result of your failure to observe rules, procedures or instruction, or is as a result of your negligent behaviour or your unsatisfactory standards of work will render you liable to reimburse to us the full or part of the cost of the loss.  In the event of failure to pay, such costs will be deducted from your pay.
On the termination of your employment you must return all items of your uniform to us. Failure to return such items will result in the cost of the items being deducted from any monies outstanding to you.
If you arrive for work and, in our opinion, you are not fit to work, we reserve the right to exercise our duty of care if we believe that you may not be able to undertake your duties in a safe manner or may pose a safety risk to others, and send you away for the remainder of the day with or without pay and, dependent on the circumstances, you may be liable to disciplinary action.
The Company provides tools and/or equipment necessary to carry out your duties. You should keep these in good repair and take all reasonable steps to ensure that they are secure at all times. You must report any lost, damaged or mislaid tools and/or equipment to the Managing Director. You must return all Company tools and/or equipment upon termination of employment by either party. Failure to return tools and/or equipment, or any loss or damage suffered as a result of your negligence, will result in a deduction to cover the cost of the tools and/or equipment being made from monies due to you.
If you terminate your employment without giving or working the required period of notice, as indicated in your individual statement of main terms of employment, you will have an amount equal to any additional cost of covering your duties during the notice period not worked deducted from any termination pay due to you. You will also forfeit any contractual accrued holiday pay due to you over and above your statutory holiday pay, if you fail to give or work the required period of notice.
On the termination of your employment you must return all our property which is in your possession or for which you have responsibility. Failure to return such items will result in the cost of the items being deducted from any monies outstanding to you. 
I have read and I understand the above terms. I agree that they form part of my Contract of Employment.
SIGNATURE:
Employee
NAME
DATE:
