STATEMENT OF MAIN TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT
This statement, together with the employee handbook, forms part of your contract of employment (except where the contrary is expressly stated) and sets out particulars of the main terms on which Atlas Fitness York Ltd, 2 George Cayley Drive, York YO30 4XE
Employs: …………………………………………..
Your employment began on …………………. No previous employment counts as part of your period of continuous employment.
job TITLE
You are employed as …………………………………………. and your duties will be as advised by the Managing Director. Your duties may be modified from time to time to suit the needs of the business. 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
You join us on an initial probationary period of three months. During this period your work performance and general suitability will be assessed and, if it is satisfactory, your employment will continue. However, if your work performance is not up to the required standard, or you are considered to be generally unsuitable, we may either take remedial action (which may include the extension of your probationary period) or terminate your employment at any time. You will be informed of the outcome of your probationary period by the Managing Director and you should not consider your probationary period to have passed until such notification has been received.  We reserve the right not to apply our full contractual capability and disciplinary procedures during your probationary period.
PLACE OF WORK 2 George Cayley Drive, York YO30 4XE.  You will not be required to work outside the United Kingdom.
HOURS OF WORK
Your normal hours of work are not variable; however, your working pattern may vary. Your normal hours of work are…………. per week, to be worked between 5.45 am and 8.30 pm, Monday to Sunday.  Breaks are paid and in line with the Working Time Regulations.  
Actual days, start/finish times will be variable and in accordance with the rota which will normally be available in advance, although there may be times where you will be given shorter notice of your hours of work.  
You may be required to work additional hours as necessitated by the needs of the business including weekends, on public holidays or at other times outside your normal hours of work.
REMUNERATION
Your salary is currently £ ……………………………. per annum payable monthly by BACS as detailed on your pay statement.  
In your first year of employment your salary will be proportionate to the amount of time left in the year
 We will ensure that you always receive no less than the National Minimum Wage.  A
dditional hours worked you will be paid at your basic rate.
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS
No collective agreements directly affect your terms and conditions of employment.
BENEFITS 
In addition to any which may be mentioned elsewhere in this statement, your position has the benefit of:
an Employee Assistance Programme
Free uniform when necessary
Complementary use of facilities for own training
Details of the above are shown separately. The above do not form part of your contract of employment and may be amended or withdrawn at any time.
ANNUAL LEAVE AND PUBLIC/BANK HOLIDAYS
Your holiday year begins on 1st January and ends on 31st December each year, during which you will receive a paid holiday entitlement of 20 days in addition to any of the public/bank holidays. Entitlements are pro-rata for part-time employees. In your first holiday year your entitlement will be proportionate to the amount of time left in the holiday year.
Your holiday pay will be based on your average earnings over the previous 52 weeks in which wages were payable.                       
Conditions relating to the taking of annual leave are shown in the Employee Handbook to which you should refer.
Due to the nature of our business you may be required to work on any of the public/bank holidays listed below, and it is a condition of employment that you work on these days when required to do so. If you are required to work on any of these days you will be given an alternative day of leave in lieu. The date when a day off in lieu is to be taken is to be mutually agreed with us.
The public/bank holidays each year are:
New Year's Day                         The last Monday in May
Good Friday                              The last Monday in August
Easter Monday                           Christmas Day
The first Monday in May            Boxing Day
In the event of you working on any of the above public/bank holidays, you will be paid at single time for the hours worked.
In the event of termination of employment holiday entitlement will be calculated as 1/12th of the annual entitlement for each completed month of service during that holiday year and any holidays accrued but not taken will be paid for. However, in the event of you having taken any holidays in the current holiday year, which have not been accrued pro-rata, then the appropriate payments will be deducted from your final pay.
We may require you to take any outstanding annual leave entitlement during your notice period.
SICK LEAVE, PAY AND CONDITIONS
Any sickness absence taken is paid in line with our contractual sick/injury pay scheme (inclusive of SSP) which, on completion of three month’s continuous service, provides payment during periods of certificated sickness for up to a maximum of 10 working days in any rolling twelve month rolling period.
Conditions relating to the above are shown in the Employee Handbook to which you should refer.
OTHER PAID LEAVE
You are entitled to the following types of paid leave subject to any qualifying criteria and notification requirements:
Maternity, paternity, adoption, shared parental leave with pay in line with statutory entitlements in place from time to time.
Bereavement leave, the length of which is to be determined on an individual basis, paid at full pay at the discretion of the Managing Director.
Qualifying parents are entitled to parental bereavement leave in line with statutory entitlements in place from time to time.
The details included at ii) above do not form part of your contract of employment and may be amended or withdrawn at any time.
TRAINING
At the commencement of your employment you will receive training for your specific job, and as your employment progresses your skills may be extended to encompass new job activities within the business. It is a condition of your employment that you participate in any training deemed necessary by us for you to reach the required levels of attainment standards.
In addition, we encourage employees to undertake external training courses where the period of training may further their career with us. Financial assistance may be provided where the Managing Director believes that the performance of the Company will benefit from your progression. Where it is provided, this will be subject to a training agreement which requires repayment by you to the Company of the cost of the training on a sliding scale in the event of the termination of your employment. Further details are available from the Managing Director.
CAPABILITY AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
The disciplinary rules and procedures that will apply when dealing with capability or disciplinary issues are shown under the headings “Capability Procedures” and “Disciplinary Procedures” in the Employee Handbook to which you should refer.  
CAPABILITY/DISCIPLINARY APPEAL PROCEDURE
Should you be dissatisfied with any decision to take action or dismiss you on capability/disciplinary grounds, you must apply, either verbally or in writing, to the Managing Director  within five working days of the decision you are complaining against. The Company will exercise discretion in hearing appeals which are submitted outside of this timeframe. Further information can be found in the Employee Handbook under the heading “Capability/Disciplinary Appeal Procedure” to which you should refer.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Should you feel aggrieved at any matter relating to your employment, raise a grievance promptly with the Managing Director, either verbally or in writing.  Whilst there is no deadline by which grievances must be lodged, it may be more difficult for the Company to effectively deal with your grievance if the complaints relate to something which took place a long time ago. Further information can be found in the Employee Handbook.
NOTICE OF TERMINATION TO BE GIVEN BY EMPLOYER
Under 1 month’s service - Nil.
1 month up to successful completion of your probationary period - 1 week.
On successful completion of your probationary period but less than 6 years’ service – 6 weeks
6 years’ service or more - 1 week for each completed year of service to a maximum of 12 weeks after 12 years.
NOTICE OF TERMINATION TO BE GIVEN BY EMPLOYEE
Under 1 month’s service - Nil.
1 month up to successful completion of your probationary period - 1 week.
On successful completion of your probationary period – 6 weeks
PAY IN LIEU OF NOTICE
We reserve the contractual right to give pay in lieu of all or any part of the above notice by either party.
PENSION AND PENSION SCHEME
We operate a contributory pension scheme which you will be auto-enrolled into (subject to the conditions of the scheme). Further details are available from the Managing Director.
SIGNATURE:
For and on behalf of the Employer
DATE
:
I acknowledge receipt of this statement and agree that, for the purpose of the Working Time Regulations, any applicable entitlements and provisions constitute a relevant agreement.
SIGNATURE:
Employee
DATE
:
